SQL subquery reference (#5067)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/sql/subqueries.md

```
{{% /code-tab-content %}}
{{% code-tab-content %}}
```sql
SELECT
  time,
  room,
  temp
FROM home
WHERE room NOT IN ('Bathroom', 'Bedroom', 'Kitchen')
```
{{% /code-tab-content %}}
{{< /code-tabs-wrapper >}}
{{% /expand %}}

{{< /expand-wrapper >}}

## SELECT clause subqueries

`SELECT` clause subqueries use values returned from inner query as part
of the outer query's `SELECT` list.
The `SELECT` clause only supports [scalar subqueries](#scalar-subqueries) that 
return a single value per execution of the inner query.
The returned value can be unique per row.

### Syntax {#select-subquery-syntax}

```sql
SELECT [expression1[, expression2, ..., expressionN],] (<subquery>)
```

{{% note %}}
`SELECT` clause subqueries can be used as an alternative to join operations.
{{% /note %}}

### Examples {#select-subquery-examples}

{{< expand-wrapper >}}
{{% expand "`SELECT` clause with correlated subquery" %}}

```sql
SELECT
  time,
  room,
  co,
  (
    SELECT
      MAX(description)
    FROM
      home_actions
    WHERE
      time = home.time
      AND room = home.room
      AND level != 'ok'
  ) AS "Alert Description"
FROM
  home
ORDER BY
  room,
  time
```

#### Inner query results

> Because the inner query is a [correlated subquery](#correlated-subqueroies),

Author: ```suggestion
Because the inner query is a [correlated subquery](#correlated-subqueries),
```

{{% /expand %}}
{{< /expand-wrapper >}}

## Subquery categories

SQL subqueries can be categorized as one or more of the following base on the
behavior of the subquery:

- [correlated](#correlated-subqueries) or [non-correlated](#non-correlated-subqueries) <!-- GET MORE INFO -->
- [scalar](#scalar-subqueries) or [non-scalar](#non-scalar-subqueries)

### Correlated subqueries

In a **correlated** subquery, the inner query depends on the outer query, using
values from the outer query for its results.
Correlated subqueries can return a maximum of one row, so
[aggregations](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/sql/functions/aggregate/) may
be required in the inner query.

In the query below, the inner query (`SELECT temp_avg FROM weather WHERE location = home.room`)
depends on data (`home.room`) from the outer query
(`SELECT time, room, temp FROM home`) and is therefore a _correlated_ subquery.

```sql
SELECT
  time,
  room,
  temp
FROM
  home
WHERE
  temp = (
    SELECT
      temp_avg
    FROM
      weather
    WHERE
      location = home.room
  )
```

{{% note %}}
#### Correlated subquery performance

Because correlated subqueries depend on the outer query and typically must

> execute for each row returned by the outer query, correlated subqueries are

Reviewer: Interesting, I assumed it was kinda grouping and then executing on groups.

**less performant** than non-correlated subqueries.
{{% /note %}}

### Non-correlated subqueries

> In a **non-correlated** subquery, the inner query deos _not_ depend on the outer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a **non-correlated** subquery, the inner query _doesn't_ depend on the outer
```
